Now, let us learn how to find out the complexity from the program code.
So when we analyze the program gold, we get a proper function, time function.
So how do we get the time functions?
We will learn about this.
So for explaining, I have taken three example program codes.
That is three functions I have taken now to analyze.
We assume that every single statement in function or the program takes one unit of time.
What does it mean by a simple statement?
The statement may be having arithmetic operations assignment or conditional statement.
However, it is more complex than we have to study that also in detail, so let us see how to get the
information and how to find that complexity.
So first, I will take this one.
This is a function taking two parameters and interchanging the values of X and Y.
What are the statements inside these are the three statements, how much time each segment takes one
unit of time because it is just an assignment, so total time is three.
So the function of an as a three, so you got the time function as three.
So that three is constant.
Order of one word is constant because the degree of end is zero here, three minutes three and the of
that is the meaning.
So anything of zero is written.
That's what one side is constant.
So this was a simple function and it is taking constant.
So it's not a proper function.
I have not written data and all this pseudocode I have written.
Now, this is exactly legacy functions.
Let us look at this one.
Here.
Let us look at the statement first, the statement assignment one year of time.
Then assignment, condition, assignment, this is plus plus increment, just an operator, but.
Is it executed just one time?
No, the salute, this statement will execute 14 times.
See if you follow this will execute four one time initially and this increment will happen four times,
condition also ten times.
But one time the conviction will fail.
So it will stop.
So this is total and plus one.
So we to ignore all of that and take just one plus one, so just for look, we are looking at this one.
Just follow this one.
Let us say time.
Take a listen to this one.
Then you can ask me why you are leaving this one and this one.
OK, if you want to include, then it should be two and last one.
That is your choice.
But mostly we find like this in textbooks.
Every author says this one.
Mostly we focus on this conditional statement.
So I'm reading the conditional statement.
Otherwise, if you sum up all this, this is two times of endless fun.
The next what is there in this statement, there's a simple assignment and arithmetic operation, Ed.
How many times as long as spending how many times Loop will run and times?
This is an.
The last return is how many times this will execute just one time so total, how much I'll find the
sum of all these two times.
And so the time function is to and plus, one, two, three, two, three.
This is the time function we got.
And what is the degree of this polynomial?
This is order of N degree one.
So we and so the time sort of n no order.
In the previous video I have shown you that when you have a follow up, which is repeating four times
going from zero to N and eight plus plus every time it's obviously N, so even when I have checked each
and every line, also final answer is rough.
And that's what if you focus on the processing, then you can directly answer this one.
If you are interested in this function, then you can get it line by line.
You get it.
So let us see the procedure.
Actually, this is sum of all and the elements in an array.
Some of all elements and elements in the network, how much time it will take, it depends on a number
of elements.
How many elements are there and elements timing so much out of simple doing line by line.
It needs a little practice.
OK, so I have shown you two examples.
So based on this, we can practice and find out the time from the code also.
Now, the last one remaining is this one.
Let us find out the time, so I'll remove that.
Now this one this is a for loop.
As I said, this will take and plus one time so and plus one times the execution will happen.
Not anything inside the loop will execute four and times every statement.
So what is there inside this loop.
This one is there.
This one.
And this one.
So I have finished with outer loop of the loop is over, not inside, that is not a normal, simple
statement.
Just like this normal, simple statement I have taken in for this also have taken and then but if you
look at this, this is also a loop, then what about it's time?
The time for this one is how many times the condition is checked and plus one.
So there's already and because it is inside the loop.
So Schlereth plus and plus one not into this one.
Nestor Lopez there, Nestor Lopez there, so it should be into it should be Engo multiplication.
So this is into and plus one.
Then this is this is statemented inside this fall loop also, so this loop repeated for and more time.
So this is in the end.
So that's it.
So if you want, you can watch it again and find out how to do this one right now.
Finally, we can prepare a function time function.
What does the time function and square and square, so to when squared plus an end to end plus one.
This is the time function we got.
What is the degree to say, Zaroff and Square?
Times Square.
This is all from the time function, we get the highest degree of a function and that presented as time
now I am calling it an order of if you are interested, you can see big often square or take off and
square and omegle and square.
But then to use these, we will be learning at the end of the course, as I said, but.
By the time you can even get an order off or even you can use Begal and stuff order, you can be all
right.
But in my retools, I'll be calling it off every time.
And at last, I'll show you one more example, I'll remove these things and I'll write one, a small
example program and I'll explain you.
So here is an example I have just taken a skeleton of to function, function well and function.
Now, if you want to find out the time complexity, as I said, every statement we should consider does
one end of time.
So how much time this function is taking?
I want the time taken by this function.
Only fun one only then what is there inside?
Just one line.
One enough time.
So this constant.
Wrong.
That is a function.
How much time that function is taking, you find out that one don't say that statement is one.
OK, look at this one.
This is having a loop, so loop will take off in time.
So it's an.
So the time taken by this function is not one that is actually any slowing done, the time taken by
this function is also and it's not one, it's not one because it is calling a function which is taking
a different time.
So definitely the time also belongs to someone because no one is using fund two and fund two is taking
a of time.
So that's all.
Look into the details of these statements and try to find all the time.
If there are simple statement, you can directly write on the time as one.
If it is complex, then see what it is doing, then build on that.
You can write all the time.
So mostly loops are making the time as an or in square or maybe any cube.
So mostly depends on loops that you're using file loop for loop or why loop.
They both are similar sometimes to this thing that followed.
OK, understood.
Why loop how to do that.
So far, looking for this repeating from one to an incremental loop counter condola, then it is then
if it is behaving in a different way, then definitely you have to read the code and understand maybe
it is log-in or root and what it is.
You have to find out that that's all in this video.
We have seen the time functions or space complexity already have explained in the previous video.
So space complexity also we can prepare a function so that following this video.